[Music]
20 interesting things you're too lazy to
Google why is the sky blue why aren't
there any more dinosaurs why do trees
change colors if you've been around kids
long enough you know the incessant
barrage of questions that as simple as
they seem
often have you scratching your head
however just because we grow up doesn't
mean that our curiosity about the world
around us goes away so if you're ready
to finally get the answers to the random
questions that lie abandoned in the back
of your brain then you've turned into
the right video number 20 why do you get
goosebumps
[Music]
goosebumps form when tiny muscles at the
base of hair follicles contract in the
animal kingdom
this helps them warm up faster by
standing each hair on end and creating a
sort of insulation in case of danger
having all their hairs in the first
standing helps an animal look bigger and
more threatening in front of an enemy
and even though we don't need fur to
keep us warm or scare off our enemies
humans still get goose bumps in cold
weather or in emotional states it's the
result of an instinctual release of
adrenaline which means that goosebumps
are just an evolutionary hand-me-down
from our ancient ancestors number 19 why
does your voice sound different on our
recording
[Music]
have you ever heard your own voice on a
recording utterly unrecognizable isn't
it what causes this is the ability of
our bones to conduct sound other people
hear the sound waves of your voice
coming only through the air and a
reporting also contains just these
sounds yet the way we hear our own
voices is a combination of the regular
sounds and the low frequency sounds
conducted by the bones of our skulls
that's why the first recording of your
voice may come to you as a shocking
surprise number 18 why do you get a
brain freeze from cold drinks or foods
[Music]
we all know the pleasure killing feeling
of a brain freeze while eating ice cream
or drinking a slushy or maybe it's even
happened to you when you breathe the air
while jogging in the park on a cold day
the thing is that when something
extremely cold touches the roof of your
mouth
the nerve center located there tends to
overreact in a panicked attempt to warm
up your brain
the nerves tell the blood vessels in the
head to swell up Jays nerves calm down
and let me enjoy my milkshake lucky for
us this stabbing pain typically lasts no
more than half a minute or so
number 17 why does the Sun darken your
skin yet lighten your hair both cases
the sun's UV rays break down melanin
which is the pigment responsible for the
color of your hair and skin the
difference is in the fact that hair is
made up of dead cells while skin cells
are alive when the pigment is destroyed
by the Sun it's not replenished in the
hair so it gets lighter your skin
however answers to the sun's aggression
with a stronger replenishment of melanin
thus making the color darker and giving
you that glowing summary tab
[Music]
number 16 why does time pass more slowly
for a child
you get the feeling that between each of
your birthdays time is speeding up well
that's probably because when you were a
child you had to remember more events
kids are only starting to get acquainted
with the world around them and their
memory has to collect more data so their
year contains more new and unfamiliar
events than that of a grown-up adults
have been there done that so to say
which means that they can rely on
previous experiences to quickly get
through current situations but a child
doesn't have this experience so they
take time analyzing much more
information so maybe the right
expression would be time flies when
you're having to be an adult
number 15 why don't your eyeballs get
cold when it's freezing out
[Music]
well that's an interesting question the
answer is that there are no temperature
receptors in your eyes plus most of your
eyeball is sitting inside your skull so
it's kept nice and toasty by the blood
flow inside
[Music]
number fourteen why do your eyes close
when you sneeze imagine this nightmare
you're driving down a busy freeway you
see your exit and you need to merge over
just as you're checking for cars in the
next lane you feel a sneeze coming on of
course you know that every time you
sneeze your eyes always close and why is
this scientists aren't completely sure
but they do believe that it could be an
instinctual response in order to keep
the flying debris and germs coming out
of your mouth from falling into your eye
it also could be because the muscles in
your face including the ones around your
eyes you voluntarily tighten whenever
you sneeze
[Music]
number thirteen why don't City pigeons
perch in trees
the pigeons hanging out in urban areas
have developed a habit of settling on
the rocky landscape where there are no
trees it means they didn't inherit the
tree perching reflex of their rural or
jungle relatives the structure of their
limbs doesn't physically prevent them
from sitting in trees they're just not
used to such behavior so you can say
that these birds have been city 5 number
why is dust white against the black
backdrop and black against the white one
dust is actually great but the tiny size
of its particles prevents us from seeing
its true color we just bought the
difference if the specs are lighter or
darker than the background
number eleven why do raccoons wash their
food not only is it super adorable but
it's also practical
raccoons often get their food from the
water and its surroundings so there can
be some lose or algae that they're
trying to clean off another reason isn't
so cute
raccoons might kill their prey this way
by simply rinsing the life out of it
hardcore
number 10 why do birds fly in V
formation first of all it's
energy-efficient no not like those fancy
lightbulbs let me explain the birds
flying in the front row create currents
of air with their wings those flying in
the back rows can catch these drifts and
save their energy well if I were a bird
my lazy bones would definitely be in the
back row Plus this formation helps all
the birds at once see the leader who
always flies first number 9 why do we
yawn when we're tired when we're feeling
bored or sleepy our breathing slows down
your body doesn't like this because it
needs your blood to be full of
life-giving oxygen so when you yawn your
lungs fill with air that then feed your
blood with the oxygen it needs to carry
throughout your body another reason
could be that yawning stretches flexes
the muscles in your chest which speeds
up your heart rate and gives you more
energy pretty cool huh
number eight why does a Brook babbling
[Music]
brook who what's he babbling about Oh a
brook they make this sound when air
bubble gets trapped in the stream and
then burst the bursting of all these air
pockets gives us a variety of sounds
which we call babble
[Music]
number seven why do you get motion
sickness
[Music]
this happens because your brain gets
bombarded with contradictory information
in different parts of your body for
example if you're on a ship your
internal ear feels the movement of the
waves but your eyes don't see it the
brain tries to make these two separate
feelings agree and gets confused the
results of this confusion are dizziness
nausea and sweating to name a few
[Music]
do you ever get seasick or carsick let
us know in the comments below
number six why do clocks hands move
circularly
[Music]
before we had handy digital clocks or
even good old mechanical ones people
relied on sundials to tell the time
these old clocks had a pull in the
center that past shadows around the
plate as the Sun moves across the sky
in the northern hemisphere the movement
of the Sun caused the shadow to go from
the left to the right the first
mechanical versions of the clock was
invented exactly there sometime later so
you can thank the Sun for those hands
spinning around the clock number five
why is the ring finger used for blood
tests well part of it is process of
elimination the thumb and pinky finger
are closely connected to the wrist so if
you get an infection from piercing these
fingers it can travel up into the arm
therefore it's advised to take blood
from any finger except thumb or pinky on
top of that the ring finger is the least
sensitive it works less than other
fingers and has thinner skin since you
don't use this finger often pricking it
doesn't hurt so much and it heals more
quickly
number four why did pirates wear eye
patches
[Music]
duh they did it to cover an eye they had
lost in an epic battle right wrong black
patches had no connection with missing
eyes pirates wore them to be able to see
in the dark
it takes the human eye more than 25
minutes to adapt from light to the dark
so when pirates needed to go to the
lower deck where the light was extremely
dim it could simply remove their badge
the eye beneath it was used to the
darkness so this helped them find their
way
number three why do goats have
rectangular pupils
these animals just like horses and
hippos need rectangular pupils for
survival with the help of the
strange-looking pupils goats can see
over 280 degrees around them which gives
the animals a perfect means to spot
predators wherever they are it's
especially important for grazing animals
that keep their head down to the ground
other hand pupils resembling vertical
slits like cats for instance are most
typical for predators
[Music]
number two why do you need to sleep when
you sleep it optimizes the synapses in
your brain what this means is that your
memories solidify and the tidbits of
information you've gotten throughout the
day move from your short-term to your
long-term memory what's more your body
demands this time of rest to recuperate
develop muscle tissue and synthesize
hormones remember the younger you are
the more sleep you need or you know it's
totally okay for an adult to sleep 17
hours a night on the weekends right
number one where does toilet waste go on
a plane
[Music]
doesn't it go flying towards the ground
at top speed hopefully not that sounds
dangerous and really gross when you
press the flush button on the plane a
valve opens and sucks down everything
out of the bowl the contents are carried
into a holding tank within seconds a
single one of those storage tanks can
hold about 20 gallons of waste right
after the plane lands a service truck
removes all the waste from the tanks
props the guys whose job it is to drive
that truck
[Music]
have you found the answers to any of the
questions nagging at your brain press
the like button if so which fact seemed
the most surprising tell us in the
comments below remember to share this
video with your friends and click the
subscribe button to join us on the
bright side
[Music]
you